Hello and welcome back.
Today we will be talking about dates.
Dates are very important in our everyday life and even more important in corporate life everything in
business world is based around time projects start project and people get hired.
People get fired.
People have to get paid on the same day of every month or every fortnight.
This is the most crucial aspect of any business and businesses can track their time more efficient and
maybe get some insightful information about it will do better in the market than those who don't.
So as you can see I have Microsoft SPL Server Management Studio opened up as always and inside of it
have console games database that they will we'll be working with console dates table.
So let's go ahead and as with any entertainment that we've never worked before was going to select all
from console dates just to see what exactly are we dealing with here.
In our case we have 50 rows about five columns and the columns that are platform name first are Taylorville
ability.
This continued units sold in millions and played from common that are first applied from basically every
gaming platform that was released the day when it was released first and the day when it was discontinued
and how many millions of units it has sold.
So the first thing I want to do is instead of going through every row and calculating in my head how
many years this or not existed.
I want to do it for me.
And thankfully as you well how's function specifically for this.
So all I need to do is I need to put a comma after the select star which I'll say a date.
So the def is a function made specifically for dealing of dates.
So they didn't open your brackets.
And inside of it it consists of three elements so decent XOs they def open brackets inside of them.
First we put the data part.
So the part that we're interested in year month week second and so on.
In our case it's going to be years then we put the older column first so the stuff that happened first
in our case its first retail availability and then we put the more recent stuff in our case it's discontinued
because the product can survive on the market negative from on the base so it has to be released and
then it has to be discontinued.
So if we execute it right now we'll get this new column at it that has a number of years that each one
of these can survive.
As you remember we did not do any other table functions right now.
That's why this column will disappear as soon as we and this quarter.
And if we go ahead and select the columns and the object of color and refresh we can see that there
is no new column added.
So what you want to do with this is I want to name it.
I don't want this column to be nameless even though it will only exist for a short while.
I want to name it.
Years exist I was going had years existed.
You can name it whatever you want.
And now if we execute it we will get a very nice neat looking table ready.
And now another thing that's very useful to do when working many table is to run order by function.
In our case those ordered by years existed and because I wanted to be displayed oldest platforms first
the ones that survived the most amount of years first I need to put in the center.
So now we have a very nice table that will give us a lot of insight to what is the maximum amount of
years that the new platform survived and with the least amount of years that any platform has survived
up to date.
As you can see we have a lot of null values and that is because all of these platforms have not been
discontinued yet and it's we just can't put anything into the discontinued code.
Don't be afraid we'll learn about nulls in a short while.
And every question will be hopefully answered.
Now again if we do collude in the object Explorer window right here and the columns we can see that
first of all available.
And this continued are both date data type.
So this is just a very important thing that you're working with the data type with the function that
will be learning today.
So now let's run some more practice into day.
I want now to show how many months each one of these platform survive.
So a set of years here.
Let's try it a month.
Just down arrow enter and change the name of the column if you want to.
Just so it makes more sense once existed and then let it go had an order by month's system.
So now if we're on this we will get a bit different table because every year will be now swapped for
the month's existed and it is quite interesting to see this new table.
So it's all the same as the previous example just a bit more practice for you.
Now let's go ahead and answer some very important for myself a very important question.
It's a question that everybody knows Black Friday like Friday is basically the biggest consumer event
out there and every company wants to sell people stuff in that holiday on that holiday week.
So because it's shifting constantly shifting holiday let's just say that we are curious about what platforms
were released in the month of November.
If you go ahead and take a look in person or television ability and this continued you will see a very
interesting pattern in that all of them originate in a very specific type.
So they have four numbers followed by a dash followed by a month followed by a dash followed by a day.
Now if we go ahead and swab down here we can see that is 0 2.
So it will always have 10 characters in debate.
There's just a very important thing to remember for the next election.
We're going to run.
We're going to run a new party in which we will say select platform name because we don't need to select
a.
We're just curious about what exact friends are or at least nothing else from core's cancel dates.
And all we can say even involved working with any specific date functions we get already solved this
question by typing in a WHERE statement in we will put where first tell availability because that time
it was made available to public the date when it was first ever sold.
So first we tell it our ability has to be like.
And then we put in two apostrophes in which we'll put our wild cards.
So as I already said this date format consists of ten characters so I put 10 dashes and if we exit this
they should return to us all 30 rows.
So now if I want to find eleventh month that month Lumba all I need to do is scroll five characters
for four characters for a year and a dash and then and said the next two characters write in 11.
So now if we run this piece of code we will get only 11 rows and all of these platforms will be the
ones that were released in November.
We can go ahead and type in here first availability just to be sure.
And as you can see all of them were released in November different units different days but all of them
were released in November.
Now let's practice some specific functions in case of this example I only in the where function and
after that I need to write and they part.
So they partner turnstyles a very specific part of date as the name would suggest and the physics behind
it is that you put in one or any other data type that you want to see and then where what are you working
with which column are you working with.
In our case it's first retail availability.
Now let's go ahead and say that this month's minus 11 has to be equal zero.
Basically we're saying that this man can only be 11 if we execute this now we'll get the same exact
result of all the plans that were released in November.
So this is just a more specific way of executing the same inquiry.
Now let's just for some practice find out all the plans that were released in December before the Christmas
holidays and New Year's printed in our case.
This is all the same.
We're still working the same column.
All we need to do is use this well and execute it.
Now you can see that only 5 platforms were ever released in December.
But to get her to give us quite a lot of information for example we can just run or a statement here
in which rules specify that they part by as well as equals zero for more than just Control-C QUANTRILL
we were put here 11 and we were on and now we can see 16 rows of data.
So basically more than 50 percent of platforms were released either in the MBR or December just before
big holidays.
That's a very interesting piece of information to keep in your mind.
This shows you a very little part of what we can do with data.
So you can change this month for a day or for day of year or week or quarter.
Just if you live in blank it will let you select and roofing it you can change here and the worry if
you see Q-Q here or year year year year basically is abbreviations for the same values and there's just
easier and quicker to write when you're going to be working a lot of rescue all but as you can see there
is a lot of different information and useful information that you can extract from Bates in Microsoft
ask you all.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture.
I hope you enjoyed working with Bates and with this specific functions and I'll see you in the next
one.